---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 875.  Koko Eating Bananas
categories: [Leetcode]
description: Solution of Leetcode 875
keywords: Leetcode, Binary Search
---

[Problem Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/koko-eating-bananas/)


## Problem Description

Koko loves to eat bananas. There are n piles of bananas, the ith pile has piles[i] bananas. The guards have gone and will come back in h hours.

Koko can decide her bananas-per-hour eating speed of k. Each hour, she chooses some pile of bananas and eats k bananas from that pile. If the pile has less than k bananas, she eats all of them instead and will not eat any more bananas during this hour.

Koko likes to eat slowly but still wants to finish eating all the bananas before the guards return.

Return the minimum integer k such that she can eat all the bananas within h hours.
## Example

**Example 1.**

```text
Input: piles = [3,6,7,11], h = 8
Output: 4
```

**Example 2.**

```text
Input: piles = [30,11,23,4,20], h = 5
Output: 30
```

**Example 1.**

```text
Input: piles = [30,11,23,4,20], h = 6
Output: 23
```

## Solution

1. From the problem's description we know that the minium possibility of the eating speed is `1`, in which case eating all the bananas will take `sum(piles)` of time. And the maximum possibility of the eating speed would be `max(piles)`, in which case eating all the bananas will take `len(piles)` of time.
2. It's natural to come up with the brute force solution, which is, let the speed increases from `1` to `max(piles)`, and for each value of speed, we compute the time it will take for Koko to eat all the bananas. When we find the first value that is less than `h`, return it, and the problem is solved.
3. However, increase the speed value by 1 at a time seems to be of low efficiency. Considering we have already known the boundaries of the speed value, we can use binary search to accelerate of algorithm.
4. In this way, the problem will be transferred into finding the left most boundary of target value using binary search.

Space Complexity: O(n)

```python
import math
from typing import List


class Solution:
    def finish_time(self, k, piles):
        time = 0
        for pile in piles:
            if pile < k:
                time += 1
            else:
                time += math.ceil(pile / k)
        return time

    def minEatingSpeed(self, piles: List[int], h: int) -> int:
        i, j = 1, max(piles) + 1
        while i < j:
            mid = i + (j - i) // 2
            if self.finish_time(mid, piles) <= h:
                j = mid
            elif self.finish_time(mid, piles) > h:
                i = mid + 1
        return i
```
